Happy Migraine Awareness Month everybody. We are finding out all about the unique journeys that we have with migraine because none of us really have the same experience but some of us do well with some things and some of us do well with other things. The one drug that I am of course most passionate about is Amavig. I'm probably the most famous Amavig super responder in the country but here to help me talk about Amavig is Suzanne who was on Amavig for a long time. Thanks Suzanne for joining us. Thank you for asking me. Very happy to have you here because you are actually one of the stories that I think people get value from and that is people who were on Amavig did really well on Amavig and have now tried one of the others. So firstly tell us a bit about yourself where do you live and what's your migraine like? I live in Mildura so I am very country Victoria. I am as far away from Melbourne as you can possibly be and yes I'm in the corner of New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria on the Murray River. Now if you do live in that area too we do actually have a local support group there it's called the Sunraysia Migraine Warriors group go look it up on Facebook. All right tell me about your migraine. Okay I've had migraines since I was 12. I'm in my mid-50s now so I have had them for a very long time and I had migraine 24-7. So if I was lucky I would have a couple of hours off from having a migraine every month. So I had them all the time. I was at the stage where I pretty much was getting asked all the time at work when was I looking at retiring. I could not function. I come from a family of migraine sufferers from both sides of my family, both my mother and my paternal grandfather were migraine sufferers. I have a sister that's a migraine sufferer as well so it's just there. Two of my children also have migraines as well. So how long like how many years were you all day every day? Probably from my mid-20s onwards. So 20 plus years. Yeah. That's a pretty long slog. So I'm proud of you for still being here if I can say that as gently as I can because one of the things that we are always concerned about as a community is that you get to a point where the relentlessness of it just gets too much. Yeah. So there is actually a day in Migraine Awareness Month it's called Shine a Light Day on June 7 where we acknowledge people who have died because of migraine. It's started by a charity in the U.S. It's never been done here but we're going to include it in the schedule for this year. Anyway let's go back and talk about more positive things. So I'm presuming you tried absolutely everything else before ANEPIC. I did. I'm actually very lucky that I have a very supportive GP. His wife also suffered from migraines or it's his ex-wife now but every time that he came across something that was new he would trial it on both her and me at the same time. We're actually really close friends. We're actually in the same theatre group together and we've known each other since the mid-80s. As soon as he found out about something that he could prescribe he would trial it on both of us to see if it worked and then if it didn't work he'd go okay now I've got to find something else. So we did eye drops. We did anything that he could possibly think of he would try it on me to see if it would work. Sometimes it would work for a short time and then it wouldn't work anymore and he'd be getting really frustrated with the fact that it wouldn't work. So I'm very lucky that way that he would try anything he possibly could and then it got to the point where yeah it was okay I need to see a neurologist because he just couldn't find anything that he could do that he himself could do anymore that it had to be a neurologist that did it then. So you got referred off to a neuro? I did. And they probably would have gone the Botox route? Yes I did Botox for several years. In the meantime though I did have a cerebral hemangioma rupture. So I had to have surgery to remove that and that was misdiagnosed by our local hospital as just another migraine. So my doctor went that is not just another migraine and he was the one that discovered that I had a severe rupture and got me sent to see a neurosurgeon and so in between that and with my neurologist that's when we had a lot more other things happening too. So your brain's not happy you've tried everything you've had one of the the complications that we who have unhappy brains have. So I've also got two brain aneurysms. Oh good. Oh yeah. Are you like collecting the set? Yeah. Stroke, hemangioma. Yeah okay we have to laugh about it right it's a bit of dark humor. Yeah. Migraine brains are very unhappy brains and they do kind of present more commonly particularly with aneurysms and strokes. So please do take it seriously if it doesn't feel like your normal attack don't let a doctor tell you that it is just a migraine attack. Yeah. Get it checked out at least get an MRI. If you live somewhere where you do have MRI which is not always the case. So all right how did you go with Amavig? Amavig was absolutely wonderful. I started taking it in January 2019 and immediately almost immediately within a week and a half the migraine stopped. Stopped. Stopped. Like somebody turned off a switch. Absolutely and when they're thinking this this has just got to be like. This can't be real what's going on? Yeah this can't be right I've got to be getting another like what on earth is happening and I think it was about four months later I got my first migraine which was all of three hours and I went because I'm thinking yeah this one's got to happen it's got to happen and when it actually when I was and it was only a day or two before the injection was due and I'm going okay I'm about I'm running out so that's obviously why I'm getting this little thing that's because I'm due to have my injection and I think in that whole 15 months I had I did have one big migraine which I ended up in hospital for ended up in the ED department for a whole 72 hours and I was counting but it was a haemoplagic one and so I they were worried that I was having a stroke. I mean I knew it wasn't a stroke because I've had the stroke symptoms before. It wasn't the same as when I did have it but they were very concerned so they kept me in the emergency department for seven to 72 hours but other than that one I think I had about maybe three breakthroughs on the day or the day before that I was meant to have the injection and they were only a couple of hours. Pretty mild I think. So I had a very similar kind of response right six days it was like somebody flicked the switch and I was suddenly back like hi. Yeah it's really quite a phenomenal feeling. It took me about six months to get to zero migraine days and then I stayed there for a year until I stupidly went off aim the big and we'll talk about that in a sec but yeah it's really quite phenomenal. So the first month I still had about 15 days but that's down from 30 right so I was same as you all day every day had been for eight years to suddenly go to nothing or close to nothing in a very like you know six weeks and suddenly I have more days that are migraine free than migraine days from all day every day for eight years is really quite a phenomenal shift and one of the things I found I don't know if you found the same thing and certainly you know it's been a bit of chatter about it online is that the anxiety actually goes up so almost everybody with migraine lives with anxiety right it's part of the package deal but the migraine actually went up in anticipation of the next attack that was going to be massive it had to be massive because I've been so good for so long the next one's going to be bad it took me months like a good six months to deal with that anxiety and that was working with a therapist the whole thing kind of allowing myself giving myself permission to be well how did you find that transition from completely debilitated to I'm good yeah as I said I kept waiting for it like it was a case of when's it going to hit when when is this thing going to be yeah I kept expecting something bad to happen the whole time I'm expecting something bad and I mean when I did have that bad one I'm going yep yep this makes sense it's going to be there but then it just took longer and longer I suppose you're right it's that whole it's the anticipation the fear of the next attack is actually worse than the attack yeah yeah yeah so you kind of come out of that phase and and you and I both had you know a good year of pretty good life really yes what led to the decision to come off it um pretty much we couldn't afford it um I only worked part-time because I'm a part-time teacher um and I have this at that point I had a child at university who is solely funded because we earn that little bit too much from the government according to them for them to be able to give him
money. And I've got another child that's at home who has a mental illness, so we look after him. So yeah, we basically could not afford it. So I then transferred to something that was slightly more affordable. So when you came off Amyvig, did you have a gap between coming off Amyvig and starting Emgality? I didn't. I went straight from one to the other. I've got a lot of complications with Emgality. I've ended up with severe food allergies, but I can put up with that. I can put up with not being able to have coffee, gluten, lactose. Maybe. It does make life harder though. It makes life very hard, but I can put up with it if it means that I can still have most days migraine free. I still get migraines on it. I've had three this month, so it's not nearly as good as Amyvig. And I would go back to Amyvig in an absolute heartbeat if we could afford it. And if it was at the same price, there would be no questions asked. So I did basically the same thing, except that I took six weeks off, then tried a shot of Emgality, and Emgality didn't work. It just did nothing. I was actually worse. So I found coming off Amyvig, that decline back to hell, and there's really no better word for it, migraine hell, was really rapid. There was a couple of days where I kind of felt good, and then about two weeks after I'd missed the first shot, I just woke up with the most enormous, hemiplegic, full tilt, can't walk, can't sit up, can't eat, can't drink, hemi. And it was just kind of hellish from there. I tried Emgality, and it literally did nothing. It was like I was taking a sea boat. If anything, I got more irritable and more moody, and I put on some weight. So I bit the bullet and went back to Amyvig, and I've gone all the way back to the beginning. So I've got, you know, like there's really rapid improvement, but it's like the first six months. It's not like the next year where I was completely attack free. So it's like there's, you know, there's still a few breakthrough attacks. I still feel a bit awry, you know, like awry. There you go. There's a word. Just make one up. I know what you're meaning, because that was me on Tuesday. Yeah, premonitory symptoms are still there. You know, they're kind of feeling a bit weird, maybe occasionally feeling a bit euphoric, which I have a lot in the prodrome, the, you know, the tingling of the aura or a visual aura. And then it's disappearing, which is good. And a couple of them are going through to a bit more of attack. But that's it, right? That's a massive improvement from can't walk, can't sit up, can't feed myself. And that's what I think people don't understand is that's the difference that we're talking about. We're literally talking about the difference between being completely debilitated or not for the price of $264 a month the government doesn't want to pay. And that's what I don't understand, right, is that why would you keep somebody in such a state of disability, unable to work, dependent on welfare or dependent on loved ones, unable to function, unable to be productive taxpayers, if it's such a small price? It's, you know, it's such a small price to pay for those of us like me and most of, you know, the board of Migrate Australia, you know, to be back in the world, you know, in your case, you know, the case of two of your children, it's, you know, it's the difference between being able to be a functioning member of society or being a burden on society. And we shouldn't be made to feel the burden. But more than that, we really shouldn't be made to feel like we aren't worth $264 a month. Because that's actually really putting a price tag on our lives. And to be told that we can't have the same access to effective medications and universal healthcare as everybody else, because there's too many of us just drives me around the bend. Anyway, let's go back to talking about the drugs, not the politics, because I'll get too cranky. I was gonna say what I found really interesting was when I was in hospital for those three days, one of the doctors and not for the doctors, one of the med students who pretends that they were a doctor that was in the emergency department, I said that I was on a Movic and most of the time they look at me and they go what? She said, Oh, okay, my sister's on that. And then when she said, and what, where's your pain? And I said, Oh, it's at about five to six. She said, Oh, so an eight to nine for any normal person. Yeah. I thought she knows. She gets it. One of our people. Yes. Absolutely. So I thought that was really nice. Actually having someone that relates to someone that has migraine and knew exactly where we actually stood because when they say, well, where's your pain level? Our pain levels are something completely different to anyone else's pain levels. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like I always reserve 10 for, you know, passing out. Yeah. And it takes a lot for me to pass out. Like I remember once saying I was at a level eight pain and having a nurse looking at me going, well, you don't look like it. And I'm like, well, I cry at nine and I pass out at 10. So am I crying? And she said, No. And I said, right. So I'm at eight. And that's, you know, that that was migraine life for me for a very long time. And it's really quite cruel to have these drugs. And I was joking with someone the other day that I think about everything now in terms of Amavix. Right. I need to get the car fixed, but that's one Amavix. And I shouldn't be thinking that way. I shouldn't be thinking that I have to, you know, value everything in my life by whether or not I can afford my medication. This is Australia. It's not the United States. It's not supposed to be like this. Yeah. But anyway, what advice just to wrap this up, would you give to somebody who is either thinking about trying Amavix or is on Amavix and thinking about switching to Engality? For me, the reason to go with Engality was for start, my GP could prescribe it and I didn't have to keep going down to the neurologist, which for me is three to four days off work. Um, so I would say if you could remain on Amavix and you didn't have to worry about the taking days off work and things like that, absolutely stick to Amavix. If money was not a worry, stick to Amavix. I hope that the government gets off their butt and just doesn't, please, please understand we really need this. It's like I said, if I could afford to go back on it, I would. But there is a big difference between $263 a month and $695 a month. This hurts. You know, if I could go to either Engality or Jovi with any confidence that, you know, I'd get anything out of them, even, you know, as you say, with more side effects, okay. Um, I have no side effects on Amavix at all. Oh, a bit of dropping of hair, but I had masses and masses of hair. So a little bit of dropping meant nothing. Mine actually is really funny, right? Cause I feel bad for the people that have lost hair. Cause mine, I don't know if you can say is crazy long, right? It's just, it just keeps growing, like growing and growing and growing. Oh, mine was crazy. I've cut off. Mine was crazy long as well. And my husband kept saying, I can actually make a carpet out of everything that you've dropped. And, um, I just went, I'll just cut it. I cut it to about here. And, um, it's, it's great. I've cut so much. I keep cutting so much off that it's not funny, but, um, I did lose a lot of hair, but then again, I said, I'm in my fifties and you start losing hair anyway. Yeah. Look, it is, is really, um, you know, it is really kind of tough to sit here and go, here is this amazing drug who will fix your problem. And, you know, you won't have any issues. And, you know, most people, the vast majority of people don't get side effects. There are, I think it's about 3% that get the constipation issues, right. Which is actually, that's fairly significant. Um, you know, um, and, and some people, it was quite bad, like they couldn't stay on Amavig, that happens. Um, but when you talk about taking, you know, a good 25% to, you know, somebody was showing 25 and 30% for each of the drugs, um, being near curative rates, the kind of responses that you and I had super responses. Um, you know, it's like, why are we even debating whether or not these go on the PBS? Why are we still debating it two years after these drugs become available? Like it's, it's just, it, anyway, I can get very, very heated on this particular subject anyway, but, um, thank you very much for joining me to talk about Amavig today and happy Migraine Awareness Month. Thank you for having me.
